Nigeria’s president, Muhammadu Buhari, has promised to give those destroying facilities of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and attacking police stations in the Southeast “shock of their lives.” This comes amid concerns that the president is planning to declare state of emergency in the zone. Sources close to the president have indicated to our correspondent that the President will declare a state of emergency in all the five states of the Southeast soon, which could lead an escalation of the already volatile security situation in the zone. The president who noted that those carrying out attacks in the zone, were not born during the Biafra war and could not have witnessed the devastation it brought, swore to teach them hard lessons. “I receive daily security reports on the attacks on critical national infrastructure, and it is very clear that those behind them want this administration to fail. Whoever wants the destruction of the system will soon have the shock of their lives. We’ve given them enough time,” Buhari said in a statement on Tuesday. “I received a briefing today from the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), on the series of attacks on their facilities nationwide. These attacks are totally unacceptable, and we will not allow those behind them to achieve their evil objectives. “I have assured INEC that we will make available to them everything they need to operate efficiently, so that no one will say we don’t want to go, or that we want a third term. There will be no excuse for failure. We will meet all of INEC’s demands. “In the area of security, we have changed the Service Chiefs and the Inspector-General, and we are demanding that they rise fully to the challenges confronting us. There must be zero tolerance for all those those bent on destroying our country by promoting crime and insurrection! “Many of those misbehaving today are too young to be aware of the destruction and loss of lives that occurred during the Nigerian Civil War. Those of us in the fields for 30 months, who went through the war, will treat them in the language they understand.”