OBINNA EZUGWU Ondo State governor and Chairman South West Governors Forum, Rotimi Akeredolu has described the killing by suspected Fulani herders in lgangan, lbarapa, Oyo state as horrendous, callous, and highly provocative. The attack which happened on Saturday night led to the killing of about 20 people in the community, while the attackers also set ablaze the palace of the monarch in the agrarian town. Reacting to the attack in a statement on Sunday, Akeredolu said it was premeditated, while calling for a joint meeting of commanders of Amotekun to discuss ways of tackling the situation. The governor said that ” All well-meaning Nigerians must condemn, in the strongest term possible, this latest assault on decency and communal harmony.” The statement which was titled “Igangan provocative onslaught one too many,” read, “We have just received with rude shock premeditated attack on our people at Igangan, Ibarapa, Oyo State, in the early hours of today. “This cowardly onslaught on a peaceful community has occasioned loss of lives and property on a large scale. “It is horrendous, callous, and highly provocative. All well-meaning Nigerians must condemn, in the strongest term possible, this latest assault on decency and communal harmony. “While we will encourage the security agencies to get to the root of this latest act of provocation, we have directed the Commanders of the South West Security Network, Amotekun, to convoke a joint security meeting of all Commanders in the South West with a view to commencing joint operations in the region immediately. “We must reiterate the fact that certain elements are bent on causing friction among the peoples of this country with the sole aim of achieving a pernicious end. “They will stop at nothing until their set goal is realized. It is, therefore, incumbent on all lovers of peace and freedom to rise against this current regression into savagery. “We on our part are resolved to defend our people, their property, and all legitimate means of livelihood against both internal and external aggression. “On this, there will be no compromise. We call on our people to remain vigilant and report any suspicious movement in their communities.” The governor further noted that “In addition, they must be united in the task of defending our lives and properties. We cannot afford to fail.”