Adebayo Obajemu Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc, a leading independent indigenous upstream oil and gas company operating in Nigeria mandated Citi, J.P. Morgan, Standard Bank and Standard Chartered Bank as Joint Global Coordinators and Natixis, Rand Merchant Bank and Société Générale as Joint Bookrunning Managers to organize a Global Investor Call at 3:00pm UKT on 22 March 2021 along with a series of 1×1 meetings with fixed income investors. A benchmark 5NC2 year US$-denominated Regulation S/Rule 144A senior unsecured guaranteed notes offering will follow, subject to market conditions. Use of proceeds will be to redeem the existing Seplat 2023 notes, repay drawings under the Revolving Credit Facility, for general corporate purposes, and to pay transaction fees and expenses. In a statement by the firm signed by the Chief Financial Officer, Emeka Onwuka, Seplat stated thus: “The information contained in this communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the securities referred to herein in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration, exemption from registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc (the “Company”) has not registered, and does not intend to register, any portion of the securities in any of these jurisdictions. This communication is not an offer of securities for sale in the United States. The securities referred to herein have not been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and the rules and regulations thereunder. The Company does not intend to register any of the securities in the United States or to conduct a public offering of the securities in the United States or elsewhere. Manufacturer target market (EU MiFID II product governance / UK MiFIR product governance) is eligible counterparties and professional clients only (all distribution channels). No EU PRIIPs / UK PRIIPs key information document (KID) has been prepared as the securities are not available to retail in EEA or the United Kingdom. This communication does not constitute an offer of the securities to the public in the United Kingdom. This communication is being distributed to and is directed only at (i) persons who are outside the United Kingdom or (ii) persons who are investment professionals within the meaning of Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”), and (iii) high net worth entities, and other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2)(a) to (d) of the Order, and (iv) any other persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully be communicated or caused to be communicated (all such persons in (i) to (iv) together being referred to as “Relevant Persons”). Any investment activity to which this communication relates will only be available to and will only be engaged with, Relevant Persons. Any person who is not a Relevant Person should not act or rely on this document or any of its contents. A rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision, suspension, reduction or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Similar ratings for different types of issuers and on different types of securities do not necessarily mean the same thing. The significance of each rating should be analysed independently from any other rating. The distribution of this announcement into certain jurisdictions may be restricted by law. Persons into whose possession this announcement comes should inform themselves about and observe any such restrictions. Any failure to comply with these restrictions may constitute a violation of the