By Sunday Oguntuyi, Osogbo It was a jam-packed school hall of Ayedaade Grammar School, Ikire on Saturday for the 63rd anniversary of the school’s old students association which brought together eminent sons and daughters of the state for the grand event. Among dignitaries at the occasion who also happen to be old students of the great school were the Alapomu of Apomu land, Oba Kayode Adenekan Afolabi as well as Osun Commissioner For Finance, Mr. Bola Oyebamiji. The week-long colourful event which climaxed on Saturday, featured series of events which include: football friendlies, symposium, debate competitions for students, quiz competition among other educative games with prizes donated by the old students. Speaking at the grand finally of the occasion, the Alapomu of Apomu kingdom, said being an old student of Ayedaade Grammar School is something of joy and pride because the school has continued to produce great leaders for the state and the country as a whole, while pledging his support for the continuous growth of the school. According to the royal father, “Ayedaade Grammar School is one of the best schools in South-West Nigeria and i am proud and happy that I am an old student of this great school which has produced so many great minds that are doing well in their various fields of endeavor”. Also speaking, another old student of the school, Osun Commissioner for Finance, Mr. Bola Oyebamiji used the occasion to thank the administration of Governor Adegboyega Oyetola for his efforts towards bringing pride and decency back to all public schools across the state through the revamping of the state’s education sector for the good of the future generation. “To say I am a proud old student of this great school is just an understatement, who will not be happy to be an old student of this school on a day like this? I must thank our amiable Governor, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola for giving this school and all public schools across the state a facelift to encourage public school education”. Oyebamiji stated. Earlier in a welcome address, President of the Old Students Association, Alhaji Bambo Atoba eulogized Alapomu of Apomu land, Oba Kayode Adenekan and Osun Commissioner For Finance, Mr. Bola Oyebamiji for their support for the growth of the association and the school. Also in an address, the principal, Ayedaade Grammar School, Ikire, Mr. Ibitowa Mufutau commended the old students assoociation of the school for their efforts at making the school continue to be ranked among the best in the country.