OBINNA EZUGWU Eight European nations including Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Lithuania, Estonia, Denmark, Norway, and Iceland have decided to stop using the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine on Thursday due to serious blood clot incidents reported in many countries. The AstraZeneca vaccine is the one currently being administered in Nigeria, with many prominent political leaders and health workers having already received jabs. Blood clot is a clump of blood that has changed from a liquid to a gel-like or semisolid state. Clotting sometimes can be a necessary process that prevent one from losing too much blood in certain instances, such as when one is injured or cut. However, when a clot forms inside one’s veins, it won’t always dissolve on its own. This can be a very dangerous and even life-threatening situation. About 30 incidents of harmful blood clots in patients who received the vaccine were recorded, including at least one case in Denmark where the patient died. The reason for halting the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is due to reports of serious blood clots after vaccination. The Health Minister of Denmark confirmed the suspension of AstraZeneca Jabs via a tweet. He said “there’s currently no ways to know for certain whether the cases of serious blood clots are connected to the vaccine, but the situation warrants investigation. We acted early, it needs to be thoroughly investigated.” Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi halted a shipment of AstraZeneca jabs to Australia. Health authorities in Italy also suspended jabs from the current batch of the vaccine. But health authorities in London and Brussels dismissed the issues, insisting that this vaccine is safe while going with plans to approve Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose jab. The EU medicines regulator said it was recommending the vaccine be authorised for all adults over 18 “after a thorough evaluation” of J&J’s data found the vaccine met criteria for efficacy, safety and quality. Health authorities in Denmark are worried about the adverse side effects believed to be related with the AstraZeneca vaccine. Many patients have reported cases of blood clots they received after getting vaccinated. This suspension will last two weeks