Newcastle legend, Alan Shearer and Arsenal hero, Thierry Henry have been announced as the first players to be inducted into the Premier League Hall of Fame. Shearer who also played for Blackburn Rovers, holds the record as the highest goal scorer in the history of the Premier League. He scored 260 times across 14 seasons for both clubs. A champion with Blackburn in 1994-95, Shearer scored 112 goals in 138 Premier League games for Rovers before a move to boyhood side Newcastle for £15million in 1996, breaking the world transfer record. The former England captain won the Golden Boot three times ant went on to score 148 goals in 303 league games for the Newcastle, becoming the only player to have scored 100 Premier League goals for two different clubs. Reacting to the induction, Shearer said, “When you look at some of the unbelievable players to have graced the Premier League – week in, week out, year in, year out – I feel very honoured to join the Hall of Fame. I have to thank all of my teammates, as well as the managers and coaches that I’ve worked with. “All I ever wanted to be was a professional footballer. It was my dream to do that, my dream to win trophies, and my dream to score at St James’ Park, to wear the number nine black-and-white shirt and it was fantastic. I enjoyed every minute of it.” Former French forward, Henry is sixth on the all-time goalscoring list in the competition, having hit a club-record 175 in just 258 games for Arsenal. He holds a record four-time Golden Boot and scored more than 20 goals in five consecutive seasons from 2001 until he left for Barcelona in 2006. Twice a title-winner with the Gunners, including in the unbeaten ‘Invincibles’ side of 2003-04, Henry also registered 74 assists in the competition. His tally of 20 in 2002-03 remains a joint record for a single season, with Manchester City’s Kevin De Bruyne matching that tally in 2019-20. Reacting to the induction, he said, “To be inducted alongside Alan Shearer as the two first inductees into the Premier League Hall of Fame is more than special. “When I was young, I was just trying to make sure I could get a pair of boots and now we’re talking about the Hall of Fame. During my career, I wanted to play hard and make sure I was fighting for the cause, because that’s all the fans want to see. “If you asked me at the start of my career about entering the Hall of Fame, I wouldn’t have believed you. It’s an amazing honour.”