The government of Lagos State has announced the diversion of traffic from the Main Carriageway inbound Anthony on Ikorodu Road from Monday for a period of four weeks, starting from May 3, 2021. The State Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederic Oladeinde who announced the decision in a statement on Saturday, said the closure is necessary to address the worsening state of the access road at the Independence Tunnel, Maryland. He said the diversion is part of the ongoing reconstruction effort on Ikorodu Road to rid the state of bad roads and ease the traffic problem. Oladeinde explained that the road needs to be fixed urgently to prevent further deterioration of the section, especially with the expected rainfall in the coming season, adding that the repairs will minimise the congestion frequently experienced by motorists along the corridor. He advised motorists coming from Ibadan-Lagos Expressway to go through Oworonshoki to connect Gbagada and descend the ramp at Anthony to access Ikorodu Road during the repair works. “Alternatively, motorists will be diverted to a counterflow on the Ojota bound lane during peak hours to minimise the inconveniences during the course of the repairs. Road users coming from Ikeja and inbound Surulere are advised to use Mobolaji Bank-Anthony Way to link Maryland and access Ikorodu road inbound Surulere,” he said. Oladeinde reiterated that the officers of the Lagos State Traffic Management Agency (LASTMA) would be in the axis to direct traffic, adding that traffic signs and signals will be also be strategically placed in the area to guide vehicular movement during the stipulated period. He, however, revealed that a trial run of the traffic management system would commence on Tuesday, 27th April 2021, to test the highlighted traffic diversion plans ahead of the set date and make necessary adjustments where necessary. The Commissioner appealed to motorists plying the corridor to endure the likely inconvenience that may be occasioned during the period, as the project is aimed at finding a lasting solution to traffic congestion in the axis in line with the efficient traffic management and transportation policy of the State Government.