Still under 30, Omonike Fowowe, has earned a prime seat in Nigeria’s entrepreneurs club, and perhaps etched her name in its startup Hall of Fame. A resilient fighter and hard worker, she has continued to defy the odds, even as her efforts have continued to attract deserved recognition in Nigeria and beyond. A determined and focused young woman, at 26, Fowowe had founded six businesses, under the umbrella of The Express Multi-Concepts Resources (EMR) Group, which she chairs. And she has rarely looked back. Today, she is, by all accounts, an accomplished woman; a strong willed amazon destined for the very top. Her passion, industry and strong sense of responsibility catapulted her into the revered clique of youngest chief executives in Nigeria. EMR Group under her dexterous nurturing has emerged into a major player in the six competitive sectors of the Nigerian economy, employing more than 30 staff members, a feat for a startup of only a few years old. EMR has wings spread across the real estate, with EMR Spaces and numerous other sectors of the Nigerian economy. Spaces is a key player in the real estate space in Lagos, Nigeria’s economic capital, managing over 60 commercial and residential spaces in Lekki Phase 1, with a target market of SME businesses and young working-class individuals. EMR Marketing, another subsidiary of the group, oversees marketing and sales of major brands in Nigeria; a digital and integrated marketing company that has managed big-ticket clients such as Access Bank, Coolworld Thermocool Nigeria, Trishocouture, Africa Fashion Week in London and Nigeria, and Africa International Fashion Week. The list goes on. Indeed by dint of hard work and utmost dedication, the Osun State born Fowowe has earned her a place in the committee of successful women, with deserved recognitions to boot. But they don’t come as a surprise for a fighter who started her sojourn into the world of business in 2011, aged just 21. From Nigeria to the United Arab Emirates, December 2020 was all about Nike EMR, as she is fondly called, as she won several awards back to back. But for Fowowe, awards started coming long before 2020. She was nominated for the Entrepreneur of the Year award at the 2015 Exquisite Lady of the Year (ELOY) Awards. In recognition of her achievements, Omonike Fowowe was awarded “Enterprising Personality of the Year” at the 5th edition of the Nigeria Entrepreneurs Award in 2018 at the Lagos Oriental Hotel. She was also a speaker and a panelist at the Boundless Hands Africa Initiative for Women and Children’s first Women in Leadership Conference for Young Female Leaders. Recently, she won ELOY award for Young Entrepreneur. And as if that wasn’t enough to the end the year on a high note, she won an international award. Nike was the youngest recipient and one of two Nigerian women who won the prestigious Panache Woman of Wonder Awards in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, an award she said, was humbling. “I feel extremely humbled to be one out of the two Nigerian to be awarded the prestigious @panachewowawards along side with phenomenal women,” she said. “I mean I am blessed not just being the youngest recipient of this award but being chosen to stand side by side with these women.” Having come of age, even at 30, Fowowe has also helped in grooming talents and managing them. She was the manager of Cynthia Nwadiora popularly known as CeeC who first runner-up in 2018 season of Big Brother Naija (Double Wahala). She currently manages Nina Ivy a finalist of that season. She also managed Dianne russet of Pepper Dem season of BBNaija. In the last edition of the reality TV show, she pulled her weight behind Dorathy which made her finish second. A philanthropist, Nike EMR has always lent her support to young people when it’s needed the most. During the #EndSARS protest she played an active role by giving out food and drinks to protesters at Lekki tollgate.