Home of the Fulani leader, Seriki Fulani, in Oyo State, Alhaji Saliu Abdulkadir, was allegedly set on fire by aggrieved youths on Friday night. Abdulkadir told online medium, SaharaReporters in Ibadan that his wives and children were sent out of the settlement, adding that 11 vehicles and houses were burnt in the process. He said despite assurance by the police and the people of the state, his house was burnt in the presence of security agents. “As we speak, we are in the bush. Our cars, numbering about 11, have been burnt. Some of my children sustained injuries and we are looking for a way to get them to hospital. My children have left their houses for the bush. We need the government to help us. Police, Operation Burst and other security agencies were there when they set my house ablaze,” SaharaReporters quoted him saying. Chairman of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association in the state, Alhaji Ibrahim Jiji, also confirmed the incident to the medium. “As we usually say, not all Fulani people are evil. Good people are among us. What can we call this now? The man is a gentleman and see how he was chased out of his house. We need the government to act now,” he said. Sunday Adeyemo, an agitator for Oodua Republic, better known as Sunday Igboho, on Friday visited some Oyo communities to confirm compliance of Fulani people with the seven-day ultimatum he had given them last Thursday to leave Ibarapa and Igangan areas of Oyo State. Fulani herdsmen have largely been blamed for the growing cases of killing and kidnapping in southwestern Nigerian. In a video shared online, Igboho was well received during his visit to the Igangan community as scores of people converged for his reception. The people were seen jubilating; dancing and singing. Addressing the people, Igboho said, “The Fulani have gone, we have sent them out of our land and they cannot come back again. Kidnappers cannot rule over us, they can’t take over our land from us. It belongs to us; they should stop threatening. “Those who live with us peacefully; we are not fighting them but how will a visitor claim one’s house from him. If you live with us in peace, we have no problem with you but if you decide to kidnap and kill us, we don’t want you here. I assure Yoruba people, particularly those in Oyo State, that there is no danger. “This one we have started here in Oyo State will not end here. We are going to other parts of the South-West. Tell Fulani herdsmen in Ekiti State, Ondo State and Osun States; in fact, in all South-West states that they should get ready for us because we are coming.”  Igboho also alleged that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari had not brought anything good to the people of the South-West except social vices. “Buhari should come and evacuate his people from our land, we don’t want them again. They are just punishing the youths; they have turned us to nothing, why? The educated youth don’t have jobs, nothing, the gain now is to kill and kidnap us. We are still on the unemployment issue, we have accepted our fate, should we not be in peace and enjoy security again? It’s enough,” he told SaharaReporters.