Authorities of the Nigerian Army have dismissed as handiwork of unpatriotic elements, a trending video alleging that troops of 302 Artillery Regiment, Onitsha, were given orders to commence the killing of people at Orlu market. Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, Col Aliyu Yusuf made this known in a statement on Wednesday. According to Yusuf, “The attention of Headquarters 82 Division Nigerian Army has been drawn to an orchestrated video clip by an unpatriotic element which is being circulated on the social media, claiming to be a soldier in the Nigerian Army by name Joseph from Bayelsa State. “The video was recorded in an unknown market claiming to be privy to a supposed order given by 302 Artillery Regiment, Onitsha to start killing everybody at Orlu Market and environs, Orlu L.G.A in Imo State. “Preliminary investigation revealed that it was a calculated attempt to maliciously fabricate sensational stories to cause resentment and smear campaign against Nigerian Army Internal Security Operations. “The supposed individual in the video was not bold enough to reveal his true identity as claimed or present his so-called military uniform and identity card which were deliberately obscured to deceive innocent target audience. “The Nigerian Army recognizes the right of citizens to hold and share opinions on social media and not to spread divisive contents by unpatriotic individuals. “This mischievous misrepresentation of facts, misinformation and fabrication of outright falsehood as deliberately captured in the video clip are been orchestrated in the social media to tarnish the good image and reputation of the military. This great disservice is not acceptable by any standard. “The Headquarters 82 Division Nigerian Army, therefore, wish to reassure law-abiding citizens that the Nigerian Army remains a professional force, that respects fundamental human rights and deploys its personnel whenever or wherever duty calls. “It is worth to note that Nigerian Army troops deployed for Internal Security Operations are guided by extant rules and regulations as stipulated in Nigerian Army Code of Conducts and Rules of Engagement in line with global best practices. “The general public is therefore urged to disregard the false information contained in the video.”